---
title: Goals and Plans
description: Inspiration and Study Plans/Resources
image: assets/images/curiosity.jpg
layout: page
istile: true
---


# High Level Goals

* How does General Relativity, Einstein's gravitational field equations, give rise to Newton's gravitational law?
* If General Relativity warps space-time, does that mean the objects in the space-time are similarly warped?
  * Similarly if the universe is expanding, are the objects in the universe also expanding?
* Does time stop passing for objects travelling at the speed of light? (e.g. light itself)
* How does Special Relativity give rise to a Block Universe (the idea that space-time embodies past/present/future)?
* Does Special Relativity explain how charge gives rise to magnetism and vice versa?
* How are electromagnetic forces the primary forces affecting everyday objects?
* Why can nothing, not even light, escape the gravitational attraction of a black hole?
* How can a black hole form? Why is it called a "singularity"?
  * How does the gravitational attraction of the Earth comapre to that of a black hole of the same volume?
* How is black hole evaporation possible, aka Hawking Radiation, when light can't even escape from a black hole?
* The Calculus of Variations sounds cool.
* Why is the principle of Stationary Action so important in physics?
* Why is Noether's Theorem so important? What does it mean to say that "a one-parameter variational symmetry group gives rise to a conservation law of the Euler-Lagrange equations"
* how can exploiting symmetry can help solve differential equations? Does this unify some of the various cookbook-like solutions?
* What is the idea behind quantum computing and quantum information?
* What is a gauge theory?
* What is the Higgs Boson at about?

## Orbital Mechanics
With SpaceX flying missions to and from the International Space Station (ISS) and with missions to the moon and mars looking increasingly likely, a basic knowledge of orbital mechanics would allow me to appreciate all this that much more.

1. Orbital Rendezvous - launch and rendezvous with the ISS
1. Earth Re-entry - return cargo from the ISS
1. Geostationary Earth orbit:
  * launching into a low earth orbit
  * doing a transfer orbit to intersect with geostationary orbit
  * final geostationary burn
1. Earth to Moon Flight
1. Earth to Mars Flight

## Turing's Thesis

## Godel's Incompleteness Theorem

# Plans
"A goal without a plan is just a wish."
